# R Community Inclusion, Diversity, Equity, & Accesibility (IDEA) 2022-05-02

Past meeting notes can be found here: https://github.com/RConsortium/IDEA-WG

Google Calendar: https://calendar.r-consortium.org

## Present

- Samantha Toet
- Joseph Rickert
- Kevin O’Brien
- gwynn sturdevant


## Agenda

1. Virtual SatRdays Francophone West Africa: Sam scheduling call with organizing committee (RConsortium, RStudio, Applied-EPI, individual contributors)
  - Date of event: Aug 6th  
  - Project management tracking: https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG/projects/1
  - Topic/theme: how to get involved with R/epidemiology
    - Common thread to series: sustainable development
    - Talks/speakers: R-Ladies Cotonou, Applied EPI, maybe someone French-speaking from RStudio?, ThinkR, 
  - Finalize roles:
    - Committee lead: finalize schedule, oversee and support other organizers, review content 
    - Speaker organizer: solicit and support speakers, rehearsals, work closely with committee lead
    - Logistics organizer: manage virtual components (zoom, etc.) and work closely with website developer
    - Website developer: create and update website, registration with logistics organizer → RConsortium Marketing Committee, Dave Parr? (davidrgparr@gmail.com) used to support tech (JR to reach out) 
    - R-Consortium liaison: collaborate with R-Consortium marketing 
    - RC-IDEA liaison: collaborate with RC-IDEA, Code of Conduct, additional support as needed

2. Collaboration with RUGS Committee
  - 2022 program posted: https://www.r-consortium.org/projects/r-user-group-support-program
  - New grant management system for financial tracking, contact points, oversight, and governance 
  - Joseph has been the single person administering for 5 years, so it’s time to get more people involved to increase the scope of operations (EX. Zoom, CoC, promotion, etc.) 
  - How do we share this knowledge? How do we use it to help others? 
  - Programs management from RUGs will come from R-IDEA and Marketing committee (review/approve grants, and support the ones that were successfully approved) → 3 representatives with clearly defined criteria 

3. In-person events - many starting to do in-person events together, some require masks, some don’t, what’s the general policy?
  - EX. https://twitter.com/endocrimes/status/1517445402378838016
  - EX. ​​https://us.pycon.org/2022/attend/health-safety-guidelines/
  - Should it be essential to report covid cases after a conference? 
  - Are conferences doing health surveys following events? 

4. Accessibility updates - gwynn applied for an R Consortium grant yesterday

5. Bespoke program for supporting online events
  - Goal: keep online events going smoothly 
  - Centralized framework → can be part of RUGS collaboration plan
  - Promotional materials, templates, etc. 
  - Twitter vs. LinkedIn: many orgs block twitter and facebook 
  - More coordination between meetup organizers and event planners 
  - Global calendar to prevent event overlap (or too close together)
  - More speaker recruitment → needs speaker directory
  - Revision of existing RC-IDEA one and let individuals add themselves 
  - Shared with RUGS leaders 
  - Filterable (timezones, expertise, preferred days) 

## Next meeting: Monday, June 6th at 7:00pm UTC