# RCDI-WG Meeting 2019-03-04

Work tracked on GitHub: https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG

Member directory: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/17ymeWiOPfNtkCzVYqbBYMoZ46E-jDIMDnIPINMKy334/edit?usp=sharing


## Attendees

+ Hadley Wickham
+ Justin M Shea
+ Soumiya Kalra
+ Jacqueline Serafin (LF)
+ Joe Rickert
+ Sydeaka Watson
+ Selmit Kariuki
+ Vebashini
+ Ahmadou
+ Angela Li
+ Brian Peterson
+ Curtis Kephart
+ Derrick Kearney
+ Gabriela de Quieroz
+ Kara Woo
+ Kari L. Jordan
+ Scott Chamberlain
+ Stefanie Butland
+ Samantha Toet


## Working Groups

+ [Revised Code of Conduct for Events](https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG/blob/master/conduct/code-of-conduct.md) (Led by Kara Woo & Gabriela de Queiroz)
    + Updates from Mishi Choudhari Alawyer with CoC expertise) — PR of suggested changes: https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG/pull/17 — mostly minor clarifications. 
    + Looking for help drafting other CoC changes, incl. lead in paragraph.
    + Updates from Audrey Eschright — still no news about training. 
    + Updates on CoC training. Have considered Valerie Aurora or Sage Sharp from Otter tech.
    + Angela Li: after talking to KW + SB found that just doing a little reading and having conversation with team was very valuable, even if don’t have formal training program

    
+ [Conference Best Practices Checklist/Badges](https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG/blob/master/outputs/conferencebestpractices.md) (Led by Steph Locke & Kaelen Medeiros)
    + Updates on https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG/pull/13 and https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG/pull/14 
    + Update of categorisation? (suggestion from Noa Tamir)
    
    
+ [Guidelines for Recruitment of Diverse Speakers](https://docs.google.com/document/d/13FAb4UwUD4fBhlUi8uRJ9fPWur2cqXT4017nV3J1P3Y/edit) (Led by Sydeaka Watson, Jenny Bryan, Thomas Mock, Derrick Kearney, & Richard Ngamita) 
    + Initial guidelines at https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG/tree/master/speakers 
    + No new updates since last meeting
    + Next Speakers meeting March 14, 2019 1pm Eastern / 6pm UTC
    + Meeting topic:
        + Identify conference organizers to share their experiences recruiting diverse speakers
        + Frequently Voiced Objections (looking for FAQ page) 
        + Identify people who measured diversity metrics before and after initiatives — Heather Turner on R-forwards/R foundation 
    + R/finance: looking specifically to improve gender diversity
    + Issues around using conference photos to show diversity
https://adainitiative.org/2013/07/04/another-way-to-attract-women-to-conferences-photography-policies/

+ R in Africa
    + Shelmuth
        + New twitter account; @africarusers (https://twitter.com/AfricaRUsers)  #africar (provided by Kevin O’Brien, mostly Shelmuth tweeting currently). 
        + Attending datafest kampala on Wednesday 
        + Looking for advice on tweet frequency: what’s optimal? 
        + Planning to talk folks behind rotating R-ladies account — one challenge in Africa is that established professionals are not on twitter.
        + Partnering with other data science related groups (e.g Python)
        + Data Science Africa (http://www.datascienceafrica.org) — currently very python heavy. Meeting to discuss teaching an R workshop.
        + Can we talk to students in school? Can we adapt workshops aimed for professionals to university and high school students? 
        + Reaching out to others in Africa who are further on their R journey (Vebashini, South Africa; Ahmadou, Senegal)
        + https://zindi.africa - data science competition platform in Africa
        + Kampala R needs support for SatRdays
    + Ahmadou
        + Smaller and regional events very useful
        + Would be very useful to have carpentry events, and start to train-the-trainer
        + Thinking regionally (esp. Mali)
        + HW: Would more French translation be useful? Yes, but not as strongly as 5 years ago, because most people learning English to program. But very important for training.
    + Vebashini
        + Meetup culture not very prevalent - meetups getting 10-14 people. But hard to find spaces that are free and convenient to people’s work.
        + Funding most important: for food, sometimes for venues etc
        + For SatRDays Johannesburg: would be nice to have funding to bring people from around the country.
        + Would be great to have Africa wide conference

## Additional Topics

+ FORWARDs package development workshop
    + Supported by R-consortium funding
    + 20 Chicago + 11 out-of-town around the conference
    + Co-taught by Angela Li and Stephanie Kirmer
    + Looked for multiple aspects of diversity, and who are actively involved in R-ladies groups elsewhere
    + Plan to put together 1 hour curriculum summary
    + Attendees were much more comfortable with packages after the workshop, see survey results here: https://skirmer.github.io/ChiEval

+ Future topics
    + Could we more proactive at reaching out conferences? (Joe Rickert)
    + Forwards project recap
    + R/finance call for diversity
    + Can we talk through the CoC that the Working Group has put together? Would be super helpful to hear the process of doing that! (Angela)
    + Updates on past/upcoming projects! (Angela)


* **Next meeting: April 1st, 3pm EST**





