# RCDI-WG Meeting 2019-07-01

Work tracked on GitHub: https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG

Member directory: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/17ymeWiOPfNtkCzVYqbBYMoZ46E-jDIMDnIPINMKy334/edit?usp=sharing

Present: Samantha Toet, Jacqueline Serafin, Kara Woo, Kevin O’Brien, Joseph Rickert, Shelmith Kariuki, Derrick Kearney, Hadley Wickham, Katherine Simeon, Noa Tamir

# Working Groups

## Revised Code of Conduct for Events

(https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG/blob/master/conduct/code-of-conduct.md; Led by Kara Woo & Gabriela de Queiroz)

Code of conduct group has tied up loose ends from Mishi, and added a couple of clarifications to readme. So now is in a good place to advertise. 

KW stepping back from leading this group. And we’ll wrap up and re-open in the future if needed.

## Conference Best Practices Checklist/Badges

(https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG/blob/master/outputs/conferencebestpractices.md; Led by Samantha Toet & Noa Tamir — actively recruiting other members)

Adding more entries from NumFocus cookbook. ST + NT planning to meet and categorise, and then will circulate back to group for more feedback.

## Guidelines for Recruitment of Diverse Speakers

(https://docs.google.com/document/d/13FAb4UwUD4fBhlUi8uRJ9fPWur2cqXT4017nV3J1P3Y/edit; Led by Sydeaka Watson, Derrick Kearney)

Met on June 13. Discussed getting 2-3 conference organisers in a RCDI meeting to have 20 minute conversation. Brainstorming about format — 15 minutes of conversation between organiser & moderator, then 5 minutes conversation. That would take about an hour for two organisers. Plan for something in October? 

So far have talked to csvconf (), and pycon (Laurena? Mesa? & Naomi Ceder?). 

From Kevin O’Brien: R-FORWARDS planning a panel on Friday at useR: https://github.com/forwards/conferences/blob/master/user2019_plans.md 

## R in Africa

(Kariuki Shelmith, Dennis Irorere)

Website is live. Nairobi hosting 2nd meetup on July 20. Planning for more than just meetup launches. We are hoping that in every month, the groups will be having a training.

## Next Meeting

Next meeting:  Mon, August 5th 7:00pm to 8:00pm (GMT+00:00) UTC
