# R Community Diversity & Inclusion - Agenda 2020-09-14

[R Consortium Diversity and Inclusion Project](https://www.r-consortium.org/projects/r-community-diversity-and-inclusion)

## Present

- Samantha Toet
- gwynn sturdevant
- Sydeaka Watson
- Kevin Oâ€™Brien
- Derrick Kearney
- Joseph Rickert

## Agenda (feel free to add additional items!)

- Takeaways from [csv,conf organizer discussion](https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG/commit/81f84fee3372d7828046dedde5a17fd901249691):
  - Conversation was a big success, thanks to Sydeaka and Derrick!
  - Learned many new tips, especially elevating speakers to panels and/or keynotes
  - Need to summarize & share with wider R community - ST will draft blog and share with group by EOW
  - Would be great to follow up and trade notes on virtual event organizing 
- Sharing [RConsortium Infrastructure Steering Committee call for proposals](https://www.r-consortium.org/blog/2020/09/01/september-2020-isc-call-for-proposals-now-open)
  - Succesful proposals historically have a broad impact on the R Community and attempted to solve a specific problem 
  - Call closes end of September
  - Process overview and submission requirements: https://www.r-consortium.org/projects/call-for-proposals
- Updated [RConsortium virtual event Code of Conduct](https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG/pull/26):
  - Would love comments/questions/suggestions on pull request
  - Plan to merge & share after our October meeting
- [ForwaRds/RCore on-ramps committee](https://github.com/forwards/rcontribution) - is there a way we can participate? 

#### Next meeting: Monday, October 5th, at 7:00pm UTC 


