# RCDI-WG Meeting 2019-02-04

Work tracked on GitHub: https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG

## Attendees

+ Hadley Wickham (chair)
+ Samantha Toet (secretary)
+ Kara Woo
+ Kaelen Medeiros
+ Noa Tamir
+ Derrick Kearney
+ Stefanie Butland
+ Angela Li
+ Gabriela de Queiroz
+ Sydeaka Watson
+ Kevin O’Brien
+ Nicholas Tierney
+ Scott Chamberlain
+ Shelmith Kariuki
+ Joe Rickert

## Working Groups

+ [Revised Code of Conduct for Events](https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG/blob/master/conduct/code-of-conduct.md) (Led by Kara Woo & Gabriela de Queiroz)
    + Updates from Audrey Eschright — still haven’t heard back from Audrey. Looking into other options (https://otter.technology/code-of-conduct-training/ )
    + Updates from Mishi Choudhari (Kara Woo) — have passed on via email and have followed up but still haven’t heard back.
    + Angela Li: https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG/issues/15 — have CoC but don’t now what to do with it. Should we provide the training? Good back plan — Nick Tierney has experience with crisis call counselling, and is happy to provide comment on materials.
    
+ [Conference Best Practices Checklist/Badges](https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG/blob/master/outputs/conferencebestpractices.md) (Led by Steph Locke & Kaelen Medeiros)
    + Update from Kaelen: Have a PR open that’s welcome for comments: https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG/pull/13 
    + https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG/pull/14
    + Noa Tamir: suggested categorisation: low-hanging fruit, low effort, high effort (from https://github.com/numfocus/DISCOVER-Cookbook) 
    + Next step: start to categorise

+ [Guidelines for Recruitment of Diverse Speakers](https://docs.google.com/document/d/13FAb4UwUD4fBhlUi8uRJ9fPWur2cqXT4017nV3J1P3Y/edit) (Led by Sydeaka Watson, Jenny Bryan, Thomas Mock, Derrick Kearney, & Richard Ngamita) 
    + https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG/pull/12 merged!
    + Possible next steps: 
        + Responses to “Frequently Voiced Objections”
        + Guest Speakers — invite to speak to this group, or organise a webinar; people who have done a good job of recruiting diverse speakers. Talk about tips/struggles etc. 
        + Add a README to the Github about current activities.

+ R in Africa
    + African R users have developed a slack channel, first meeting last week. Uganda x3, South Africa x1, Nigeria x2, + Kevin O’Brien (R forwards)
    + Common problems across countries:
        + Little current awareness of R (as opposed to Python)
        + Could we sponsor internships? Events? 
        + Could we organise pan-African conference? And invite “big names”? SatRdays planned for Kampala. African version of eRum? 
        + Other data science conferences: http://datascience-africa.org/r-summit/ 
        + Immediate plans: African twitter account, using rotating curators like R-Ladies
        + Easier to start with one big conference, better to get critical mass for one conference.
        + https://www.hiretheyouth.org/datafest-kampala/ 
        + Monthly meetings
    + From last meeting:
        + (Stef B) Kenya connection: The Carpentries brand new Community Engagement Lead, Serah Njambi Rono did her CS degree in Nairobi and has worked for https://codeforafrica.org/. Maybe some complementary interests or opportunities. https://carpentries.org/blog/2018/12/announcing-new-cel/
        + Shel put together this helpful list of speakers in Africa: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1SH6aayWgopeipfSbcY-zxp4SzUbJsCBZraSFDijEQeM/edit#gid=0

+ Additional topics:
    + Directory of group members: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/17ymeWiOPfNtkCzVYqbBYMoZ46E-jDIMDnIPINMKy334/edit?usp=sharing
    + How can we do better at outreach? 
        + Angela: thinking about making it easy/straightforward for organizers to adopt diversity practices (the pit of success!)
        + Angela: encouraging folks from underrepresented backgrounds to organize things themselves, because they will inherently be drawing from different networks; tapping into existing networks to do outreach (R-Ladies, satRdays, R User Group organizer Slack etc)
        + Also -- the value of one-on-one conversations in discussing this stuff: organizer-to-organizer conversations about how to do this
        + Noa: another thing that worked for us is to remind ourselves our goals of diversity and inclusion and our CoC at the beginning of every organisers group and sub-group
        + Scott: are R meetups under our purview? If so, reaching out through meetup.com  is a one stop shop to reach meetup organizers
        + https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG 
            + Each working group should contribute a README
        + Angela Li + Stefanie Butland + Kara Woo + Justin M Shea + Nick Tierney: will talk about CoC training
        + https://rusergroups.slack.com — good place to ask questions about conference organisation
        + Legal issues:
            + e.g. providing baby sitters for local conference.
            + how do you protect yourselves from liability
            + but very different from country to country
            + Lessons learn on satrday blog: https://satrdays.org/blog/
            + UseR panel by conference organisers
+ Next meeting: Mon March 4th 3pm EST



