# RCDI-WG Meeting 2018-12-03

Work tracked on GitHub: https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG

# Attendees
* Hadley Wickham (chair)
* Samantha Toet (secretary)
* John Mertic
* Jenny Bryan
* Gabriela de Queiroz
* Joseph Rickert
* Kevin O’Brien
* Scott Chamberlain
* Sydeaka Watson
* Kara Woo

# Agenda and Meeting Notes
* Welcome
    + Next time make sure encourage people to join even if they haven’t before
    + Blog post — share and promote
    
* Working Groups
    + [Revised Code of Conduct for Events](https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG/blob/master/conduct/code-of-conduct.md) (Led by Kara Woo & Gabriela de Queiroz)
        + Board: very keen to get extra advice from Audrey Eschright. Would also like to get advice from an attorney. LF has relationship Mishi Choudhary (https://www.softwarefreedom.org/about/team/#choudhary), and is happy to give feedback. Would start with 10 hour engagement.
        + What are the legal responsibilities associated with having a CoC?
        + We will not be involved in the enforcement; we’re offering advice as much as possible
        + Scott + Gabriela + Kara working on document describing how to handle code of conduct violations
        + Kara working on training proposal to share with group (coordinating with Audrey Eschright) 
        + Next steps: John to engage with Mishi & legal review to answer above questions
        + KW: Do we have a specific budget? WG can spend $4000 relatively easily; can ask for ISC for more

    + [Conference Best Practices Checklist/Badges](https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG/blob/master/outputs/conferencebestpractices.md) (Led by Steph Locke, Kaelen Medeiros, & Jeff Hollister)
        + On hold for now

    + [Guidelines for Recruitment of Diverse Speakers](https://docs.google.com/document/d/13FAb4UwUD4fBhlUi8uRJ9fPWur2cqXT4017nV3J1P3Y/edit) (Led by Sydeaka Watson, Jenny Bryan, Thomas Mock, & Derrick Kearney)
        + Still soliciting feedback on https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG/pull/12 
        + Next steps: started a “Frequently Voiced Objections” section to our agenda doc. https://docs.google.com/document/d/13FAb4UwUD4fBhlUi8uRJ9fPWur2cqXT4017nV3J1P3Y/edit Add questions you have come cross and responses to the Frequently Voiced Objections section in the doc
        
   
* Additional Topics
    + Best Practices for Handling Skeptics - ongoing discussion 
        + Related: How we keep up to date on diversity issues?
    + From Kevin O’Brien: https://twitter.com/baxterkb/status/1069343964417802240?s=20 — visa problems for africans visiting to US. Can we help catalyse more events in Africa?
    + From Scott Chamberlain: https://twitter.com/pdalgd/status/1067097356259287041 — R core member suggested women simply less interested in hard core development.
    + How are we defining diversity?
        + Clearly targeting gender diversity. Are there are specific ethnic groups we should be considering?
        + Organising committee vs speakers vs attendees
        + KOB: FORWARDs team have been thinking about this. Forwards was involved in hackathon for trans day of remembrance
        + Should conferences collect this information? At what level?
        
* Next meeting: Monday, Jan 7, 3PM EST

