# RCDI-WG Meeting 2019-01-07

Work tracked on GitHub: https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG

# Attendees

+ Hadley Wickham (chair)
+ Samantha Toet (secretary)
+ Kevin O’Brien
+ Shelmith Kariuki
+ Sydeaka Watson
+ Derrick Kearney
+ Gabriela de Queiroz
+ Kaelen Medeiros
+ Kara Woo
+ Nicholas Tierney
+ John Mertic
+ Richard Ngamita
+ Noa Tamir
+ Scott Chamberlain
+ Stefanie Butland
+ Justin Shea
+ Angela Li
+ Joe Rickert

Welcome & Happy New Year!

+ Welcome new attendees

+ Working groups
    + [Revised Code of Conduct for Events](https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG/blob/master/conduct/code-of-conduct.md) (Led by Kara Woo & Gabriela de Queiroz)
        + Updates from Audrey Eschright (Kara Woo) — program for CoC enforcement training. Not much progress due to holidays. Haven’t heard back from Audrey. Also considering reaching out to Valerie Aurora (http://valerieaurora.org) - pending discussion 
        + Updates from Mishi Choudhari (John Mertic) — https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mishi_Choudhary. Legal advice to LF, debian, FSF, etc. Work with linux kernel on their CoC. Introduced herself and asked some questions about our goals. Distinction between conference CoC and CoC applied to R consortium member.
            + Kara to follow up with Mishi, will extend invites to any other calls to the mailing list

    + [Conference Best Practices Checklist/Badges](https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG/blob/master/outputs/conferencebestpractices.md) (Led by Steph Locke & Kaelen Medeiros)
        + Would love more help from others
        + @kaelen_medeiros or kaelenmedeiros@gmail.com - feel free to reach out!!!
        + Nick Tierney + Noa Tamir + Samantha Toet will take a look at PR

    + [Guidelines for Recruitment of Diverse Speakers](https://docs.google.com/document/d/13FAb4UwUD4fBhlUi8uRJ9fPWur2cqXT4017nV3J1P3Y/edit) (Led by Sydeaka Watson, Jenny Bryan, Thomas Mock, Derrick Kearney, & Richard Ngamita)
        + Will merge https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG/pull/12  in the next month - would love feedback.
        + Mention R-ladies directory: https://rladies.org/directory/
            + Has a Speakers sub-directory: https://rladies.org/r-speakers/ 
        + Next steps: started a “Frequently Voiced Objections” section to our agenda doc. https://docs.google.com/document/d/13FAb4UwUD4fBhlUi8uRJ9fPWur2cqXT4017nV3J1P3Y/edit - Add questions and responses you have come across
        + Would love help! Volunteers: Richard Ngamita

    + New topics
        + Kenyan’s (e.g.) don’t get a lot of support. Could we get more support from the R community to call into African R conferences etc.? Challenges with education in Africa; esp. what happens after school. 
            + (Scott) Related note: on the useR diversity scholarship committee and there’s an ask from a Ghanaian about getting the $$ before attending as they can’t afford to pay before - seems like an important piece
            + (Stef B) Kenya connection: The Carpentries brand new Community Engagement Lead, Serah Njambi Rono did her CS degree in Nairobi and has worked for https://codeforafrica.org/. Maybe some complementary interests or opportunities. https://carpentries.org/blog/2018/12/announcing-new-cel/

    + Additional topics
        + https://twitter.com/justinmshea/status/1074167144466800640

    + Next meeting: Monday, Feb 4th at 3PM (midnight Kenya)
        + Samantha Toet will put together a google doc of RCDI-WG members' contact info
        + Meet up at conf? 



