# RCDI-WG Meeting 2019-08-05

Work tracked on GitHub: https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG

Member directory: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/17ymeWiOPfNtkCzVYqbBYMoZ46E-jDIMDnIPINMKy334/edit?usp=sharing

Present: Samantha Toet, Joseph Rickert, Shelmith Kariuki, Sydeaka Watson, Derrick Kearney, Angela Li, Katherine Simeon, Scott Chamberlain

# Working Groups

## Revised Code of Conduct for Events

(https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG/blob/master/conduct/code-of-conduct.md; Led by Kara Woo & Gabriela de Queiroz)

Original code of conduct group has tied up loose ends from Mishi, and added a couple of clarifications to README. KW has stepped back from leading this group. 

Discussion about summarization (EX. for agenda and slide) and categorization. ST and JR to discuss editorial clarity, and begin summarizing similarly to Carpentries CoC https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/policies/code-of-conduct.html

Discussion on enforcement - can this be outlined in the organizer checklist?

## Conference Best Practices Checklist/Badges

(https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG/blob/master/outputs/conferencebestpractices.md; Led by Samantha Toet & Noa Tamir)

Added entries from NumFocus cookbook and created Google Sheet listing and categorizing all items: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1CLRbwqNAEvG8-yeoM0AJsBqXU7Lot3jGFPtNz7zUfYU/edit?usp=sharing. 

Soliciting feedback on items and subsequent categorization and organization. 

Section to be added on time commitment requirements for each item. 

## Guidelines for Recruitment of Diverse Speakers

(https://docs.google.com/document/d/13FAb4UwUD4fBhlUi8uRJ9fPWur2cqXT4017nV3J1P3Y/edit; Led by Sydeaka Watson & Derrick Kearney)

Met on June 13. Discussed getting 2-3 conference organisers in a RCDI meeting to have 20 minute conversation. Brainstorming about format — 15 minutes of conversation between organiser & moderator, then 5 minutes conversation. That would take about an hour for two organisers. Plan for something in October? Will share notes from speaker interviews with team.

So far have talked to csvconf (), and pycon (Lorena Mesa? & Naomi Ceder?).

## R in Africa

(Led by Kariuki Shelmith & Dennis Irorere)

UseR!2019 attendance and presentation was a motivation to many organizers and potential sponsors.

Talks on having ARUM 2020 / 2021 are underway. Currently discussing about the best potential venue (one with less visa requirements, good infrastructure, and a developed R community / several R users). Planning on having 150 - 200 participants for a start. Organisers will be drawn from the OS active African RUGs (about 10 in total). 

Planning to reach out to DSA (Data Science Africa, to get to hear how they organise the event)

Planning to have R workshops in different campuses in Africa. Piloting this with #NairobiR, a few campuses have reached out. If it works well, we can roll it out to the larger Africa.

Lorna Maria to write a blog post on AfricaR on the inspiration, organizers, and different communities. Shelmith finding it difficult to separate #AfricaR from Shelmith / NairobiR. Repost on Rbloggers? 

Progress in Morocco - can foster connections for second regional cluster 

FORWARDS UseR!2019 lunch meeting recurrent theme: diversity in leadership structure of organizations helps build momentum and support 

## Other Items

What does diversity mean to participants outside of the US? Different answers across different locations. (EX. one R user in their entire country)

How can organizers support difficult travel and Visa needs for participants and diversity scholars? Extend timeline, work with participants on an individual need-by-need basis, organizers reach out to embassies, provide more verified information and documentation. 

Updating the README to highlight each group’s activity and update membership. 

## Next Meeting

Mon, September 9th (Note: Sept 2nd is a US holiday), 7:00pm to 8:00pm (GMT+00:00) UTC