# RCDI-WG Meeting 2018-10-01

Work tracked on GitHub: https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG

## Attendees 
* Hadley Wickham (chair)
* Samantha Toet (secretary)
* Justin Shea
* Gabriela de Queiroz
* Kara Woo
* Sydeaka Watson
* Derrick Kearney

## Agenda & Meeting Notes
* **Welcome & Logistics**
    + Next time make sure encourage people to join even if they haven’t before
    + Blog post — with 3 projects we’re working on and initial progress reports

* **Revised Code of Conduct for Events** (Led by Kara Woo & Gabriela de Queiroz)
    + https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG/blob/master/conduct/code-of-conduct.md 
    + Discussion at https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG/issues/5
    + PRs and comments merged
    + Need some advice about enforcement code of conduct
    + HW + JM: share with board, and get ideas for next steps
    
* **Conference Best Practices Checklist/Badges** (Led by Steph Locke, Kaelen Medeiros,  Thomas Mock, & Jeff Hollister)
    + First pass at https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG/blob/master/outputs/conferencebestpractices.md
    + Skipped for this month
    
* **Guidelines for Recruitment of Diverse Speakers** (Led by Sydeaka Watson, Jenny Bryan, Thomas Mock, & Derrick Kearney)
    + Aggregated readings and notes: https://docs.google.com/document/d/13FAb4UwUD4fBhlUi8uRJ9fPWur2cqXT4017nV3J1P3Y/edit
    + Writing draft of guidelines. Initial version can be found in google doc linked above under the section titled “Draft Article”.
    + Highlights 5 major areas groups can focus on to help increase the diversity of their event’s speaker lineup.
    + Handy acronym to help you remember the areas: M.A.P.S.S
        + Mission
        + Advertise
        + Pipeline
        + Selection
        + Sharing
    + Next step: Will transfer it to a github PR so we can accept feedback through PR comments. 
    + HW: is it ok to ask if contributor member of URM? Important to make clear why we are asking.
    + May start up a Frequently Voiced Objections document if there is time.
    
* **Ongoing Conversations & Next Steps**
* Best Practices for Handling Skeptics - ongoing discussion
    + Related: How we keep up to date on diversity issues?
    + JB: saw useful concise lists of skeptic responses, will summarise
    + Diverse speaker group: started with google search + reading many links
* Blog post
    + Each group to contribute 1-2 paragraphs about topic + link to resource on github + how to contribute — email to jmertic@linuxfoundation.org
    + Plan for blog in ~2 weeks (Oct 14 ish)
* Interim stages: promotion of RCDI-WG
* Next meeting: Monday November 5
    + Review timing next time
* Code of Conduct desired features (discussion led by KW)
    + Important to have explicit list of behaviours that are not permitted; makes it much harder for people to push the boundaries
        + Sends strong signal to attendees that organisers understand the potential risks
    + Clear instructions for reporting violations
        + How will reports will be handled? What are possible sanctions?
        + How much information is needed? i.e. what happens if you don’t know the person’s name? Collect as much information as possible? Reach out to other possible witnesses?
    + How will enforcement be handled?
        + What will organisers do with reports?  How will privacy be respected?
    + How do you train people to handle? 
    + HW to reach out to Audrey Eschright for review + call participation

* **Future/Other Discussions**
    + WG Diversity (advice for other working groups)
    + ST + KO’B: What does it mean to be a good/bad ally?
        + Good resource: http://www.guidetoallyship.com/
    + Discuss R consortium Code of Conduct generally — how do we enforce it?
    + How are we defining diversity? How do we measure it? Do we want to be able to? Should we be recording/analysing?
    + What happens if a conference agrees to our principles, and then fails to live up to them?
    + How do we tackle diversity & inclusion in our online spaces? What can community organisers do to promote diverse & enjoyable online spaces?
    + FAQ about why diversity & inclusion important?
    + Who can we reach out to for participation and input from R-Users located in Latin America and Africa?
    + Coaching/discussion forum for conference organisers
    + Should we consider curating a list of diverse speakers?


    




