# R Community Diversity & Inclusion - Agenda 2019-12-02

Welcome to the [R Consortium Diversity and Inclusion Project](https://www.r-consortium.org/projects/r-community-diversity-and-inclusion)!

Present: Samantha Toet, Kevin O’Brien, Noa Tamir, Joe Rickert

## Helpful Links

Work tracked on Github: https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG

Member Directory: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/17ymeWiOPfNtkCzVYqbBYMoZ46E-jDIMDnIPINMKy334/edit?usp=sharing

  
# Working Groups

### Participant Diversity - Visa Project
(Kevin O’Brien, Richard Ngamita)

How can organizers support difficult travel and Visa needs for international participants and diversity scholars? 
Suggestions: extend timeline, work with participants on an individual need-by-need basis, work with embassies, provide more verified information and documentation. 

Next steps: 
- Teaming up with ForwaRds conference team members to create task force 
- Brainstorming ideas for supporting Visa requirements for UseR! sponsorships? Meeting with their Diversity Equity and Incluison Core Team on January 16th
- Write up a README outlining mission

### R in Africa 
(Shelmith Kariuki, Dennis Irorere)

Forwards blog post: https://forwards.github.io/blog/2019/11/15/the-state-of-r-in-africa/

2020 Conference in Nigeria (at least 6 active groups) - researching venue, would be in French
Discussing teaming up with SatRdays? https://abidjan2020.satrdays.org/

Allocation of RStudio funds? ST, HW, and SK to discuss how money will be distributed and guidelines for use (similar to RUGs requirements). JR to raise this issue with the R Consortium.

### Guidelines for Recruitment of Diverse Speakers
(https://docs.google.com/document/d/13FAb4UwUD4fBhlUi8uRJ9fPWur2cqXT4017nV3J1P3Y/edit. Led by Sydeaka Watson, Derrick Kearney)

Updated notes from pre-meeting interviews with Danielle Robinson, Lorena Mesa, and Naomi Cedar. See above Google Doc.

Proposing new dates for in-meeting interviews. March or April 2020. Keeping format previously discussed: 20 minute conversations, with 15 minutes between organizer and moderator, then 5 minutes conversation / questions from everyone.

### Conference Best Practices Checklist/Badges
(https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG/blob/master/outputs/conferencebestpractices.md, Led by Samantha Toet & Noa Tamir)

RStudio has officially partnered with [NumFocus](https://numfocus.org/sponsors) as a platinum level sponsor. Noa leading discussions of RConsortium partnership. 

Discussions of disability inclusion: https://github.com/forwards/event_best_practices/blob/master/DRAFTEventBestPracticesDisability1119.md

### Organization of the Revised Code of Conduct for Events
(https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG/blob/master/conduct/code-of-conduct.md; Led by Joe Rickert, Gabriela de Quieroz, and Samantha Toet)

Working on mission and diversity statement. 

Discussion about summarization (similarly to Carpentries CoC https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/policies/code-of-conduct.html), and distribution. 

### Next Meeting

Monday, January 6th, 7:00pm to 8:00pm (GMT +00:00) UTC





