# RCDI-WG Meeting 2018-08-06

### Attendees

* Derrick Kearney
* Jennifer Bryan
* Samantha Toet
* Adnan Fiaz
* Gabriela de Queiroz
* Jeffrey Hollister
* Joseph Rickert
* Kara Woo
* Hadley Wickham
* Kevin O’Brien
* Thomas Mock
* Sydeaka Watson

### Agenda & Meeting Minutes

* Welcome
* Organization
    + Work tracked on GitHub: https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG
    + Who can we reach out to for participation and input from R-Users located in Latin America and Africa?
* Initial objectives: Beta versions by September 15
    + **Revised Code of Conduct for Events** (Led by Kara Woo & Gabriela de Queiroz)
        + Initial discussion at https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG/issues/5 
        + Short term goal: Code of Conduct template
        + Where should the current code of conduct apply? The current implication is too broad
        + Discussion over importance to include explicit language and examples
        + How to address assigning code of conduct vs. supporting organisations existing code of conducts?
        + Should provide guidelines to event organisers about enforcement
        + Kara Woo will pick deadline and advertise call for comments on mailing list. Will consult R-ladies for sources/inspirations
        + Decision to move discussion to mailing list/issue thread
    + **Conference Best Practices Checklist/Badges** (Led by Steph Locke, Kaelen Medeiros,  Thomas Mock, & Jeff Hollister)
        + Jeffrey Hollister will kick off discussion on mailing list
        + First pass at https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG/blob/master/outputs/conferencebestpractices.md
    + **Guidelines for Recruitment of Diverse Speakers** (Led by Sydeaka Watson, Jenny Bryan, Thomas Mock, & Derrick Kearney)
        + Thomas Mock is currently aggregating readings: https://docs.google.com/document/d/13FAb4UwUD4fBhlUi8uRJ9fPWur2cqXT4017nV3J1P3Y/edit
        + Sydeaka Watson and Derrick Kearney met to plan a strategy for moving forward for September 15:
            + First part: review guidelines for existing conferences
            + Second part: reaching out to representatives of conferences that we have some relationship with (selenium conference, RStudio conference, coders of colour conference, Black in AI https://blackinai.github.io)
            + What worked? What could have been better?
            + Aim to have starting list by next meeting
        + Thoughts emerging from our discussion: responsibilities of organizing committee vs. program committee, when to articulate goals re: diversity (early!), diversity in the organizing committee can be advantageous
        + Kevin O’Brien brought up the importance of on ramps in building diversity 
    + **Best Practices for Handling Skeptics** (ongoing discussion)
        + Related: How we keep up to date on diversity issues?
* Interim stages: promotion of RCDI-WG
    + Promote on Mailing List
    + RConsortium blog post
    + Retweets
* When should we meet next?
    + 2pm EST is very late for Europeans, 11am PST is more doable
    + Discussion of breaking up into two meetings for US and Europe with Steph Locke chairing Europe version
    + We don't want to splinter into two groups so it's better to pick a more accessible time 
    + Monday, Sept 3 is a US holiday (Labor Day)
    + **Next meeting scheduled for 11am EST on Tuesday, September 4th**

### Future discussions
* Discuss R consortium Code of Conduct generally — how do we enforce it?
* How are we defining diversity? How do we measure it? Do we want to be able to? Should we be recording/analysing?
* What happens if a conference agrees to our principles, and then fails to live up to them?
* How do we tackle diversity & inclusion in our online spaces? What can community organisers do to promote diverse & enjoyable online spaces?
* FAQ about why diversity & inclusion important?
    




