# RCDI-WG Meeting 2018-07-02

## Attendees

* John Mertic
* Thomas Mock
* Stephanie Locke
* Kevin O'Brien
* Kara Woo
* Hadley Wickham
* Kaelen Medeiros
* Samantha Toet
* Gabriela de Queiroz
* Jeffrey Hollister
* Jennifer Bryan
* Derrick Kearney
* Joseph Rickert
* Sydeaka Watson
* Adnan Fiaz

## Agenda

- Welcome
- Introductions
- Organization
  - Volunteer for secretary?
  - Work on Github? https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG
  - Whoâ€™s missing?
- Initial objectives
  - Revised code of conduct (Lead by: )
  - Conference best practices checklist/badges (Lead by: )
  - Conference diversity/inclusion guidelines (Lead by: )
  - Other ideas?
- Future calls
  - Monthly cadence?
  - Scheduling next call

## Notes

Hadley introduced the group and welcomed everyone to the call. Hadley then had all members to the call introduce themselves to the group.

Samantha Toet stepped forward to be the secretary for the group, John said he would work with her offline to get her up and going.

The group generally agreed to collaborate on the work over GitHub at https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG.

Hadley asked the group if there was anyone not represented on the WG. There was a suggestion to connect with people based in Latin America and Africa, which Hadley said he would raise a question on the mailing list on who to specifically connect with.

Hadley lead a discussion on starting on the deliverables for the working group.

- Stephanie Locke stated that SatR days has adopted the R Ladies Code of Conduct and felt it was a good one to start with. Gabriela indicated she could help bring the R Ladies one over, and Kara Woo indicated she would uploading it to the GitHub website.
- There was a question on the impetus of building the Code of Conduct in this group, which Hadley indicated is intended to be used for the R community as a whole and any event.
- Stephanie Locke indicated she would lead the work on driving the conference best practices checklist, with Kaelen offering her support as well. Jennifer Bryan asked for clarity on this, and there was some discussion on the directive of this group. The consensus was that this checklist would be an external facing tool that would showcase the concrete steps an event has taken.
- Sydeaka asked if there would be a legislative body to manage events adhering to the checklist being produced. Hadley indicated it would only guide R Consortium funding, with the aim of having the community as a whole look to adopt. Joesph further raised the potential for managing compliance to the guidelines and checklist.
- Kevin shared AlterConf for an existing resource ( https://www.alterconf.com/ )
- Sydeaka and Jenny offered support on guidelines for recruitment of diverse event speakers.

There was an agreement to have a "beta" version of the Code of Conduct, Conference Best Practices, and Guidelines for Recruitment of Diverse Speakers by September 15th.

# Future Meetings

The following topics were raised for discussion:

- Defining diversity and getting better diversity data on the community as a whole.
- Diversity of Attendees
- Diversity, inclusion, and conduct with online discussions ( chat, email, social )

There was an agreed upon monthly call for the group as a whole. John and Samantha would work to schedule it on the first Monday of the month at 2:00pm ET.
