# RCDI-WG Meeting 2019-09-09

Work tracked on GitHub: https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG

Member directory: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/17ymeWiOPfNtkCzVYqbBYMoZ46E-jDIMDnIPINMKy334/edit?usp=sharing

Present: Hadley Wickham (rep to ISC), Samantha Toet (chair), Shelmith Kariuki, Katherine Simeon, Kevin O'Brien, Stefanie Butland

## Announcements and Group Updates

* New organization and updated projects: Hadley stepping down as chair, and Samanatha Toet taking over.
* Updated README — ST going to update readme https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG with latest activities.
* Recruitment of new members — Please to reach out to other people in the community who might be interested in participating.

# Working Groups 

### Revised Code of Conduct for Events

(https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG/blob/master/conduct/code-of-conduct.md; Led by Kara Woo & Gabriela de Queiroz)

Have spent over a year on this (!!); original group has tied up loose ends.

Next steps:

Discussion about summarization (similarly to Carpentries CoC https://docs.carpentries.org/topic_folders/policies/code-of-conduct.html), distribution, and enforcement (possibly in organizer’s checklist?). 

How can we share it with more of the community? Would be great to get some fresh eyes to take a look at the organisation and revise any areas of confusion, and to get conference organisers interested in it and using it.

HW tweeted about it: https://twitter.com/hadleywickham/status/1159910998343606278 - ~100 retweets and ~300 likes, so a fairly popular tweet. Continue to promote via individual twitter accounts

ST to reach out to Joe Rickert about R-consortium (RC marketing person is Jesse Casman) 

ST will pick a day to promote, put in calendar, share via mailing list, and provide some shared text/tweets to get started. Develop list of specific desired actions. If we get too many new members, we can ramp it down.

### Conference Best Practices Checklist/Badges

(https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG/blob/master/outputs/conferencebestpractices.md; Led by Samantha Toet & Noa Tamir)

Added entries from NumFocus cookbook and created Google Sheet listing and categorizing all items: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1CLRbwqNAEvG8-yeoM0AJsBqXU7Lot3jGFPtNz7zUfYU/edit?usp=sharing. 

Soliciting feedback on items and subsequent categorization and organization (EX. importance, effort, time commitment, etc.). Please take a look and add your feedback.

Next steps: categorize, provide examples, and brainstorm badges 

### Guidelines for Recruitment of Diverse Speakers

(https://docs.google.com/document/d/13FAb4UwUD4fBhlUi8uRJ9fPWur2cqXT4017nV3J1P3Y/edit; Led by Sydeaka Watson & Derrick Kearney)

Met on June 13. Discussed getting 2-3 conference organisers in a RCDI meeting to have 20 minute conversation. Brainstorming about format — 15 minutes of conversation between organiser & moderator, then 5 minutes conversation. That would take about an hour for two organisers. Plan for something in October? 

Will share notes from speaker interviews with team. So far have talked to csvconf (), and pycon (Lorena Mesa? & Naomi Ceder?). 

KO exploring first time speaker track at PyCon Limerick Ireland.

### R in Africa

(Led by Shelmith Kariuki & Dennis Irorere)

Local R user groups:

- Many organizations struggling to find venues
- Helping organizers apply to R Consortium funding 

Conferences:

- SatRdays Nairobi planned for November
- Talks on having ARUM 2020/2021. Organizers will be drawn from the active OS African RUGS (about 10 in total). Discussing best potential venue (less Visa requirements, good infrastructure, developed R community). Goal is to have 150-200 participants. Looking for help organizing and promoting. 
- Planning on reaching out to Data Science Africa to hear how they organize their events

Lorna Maria to write a blog post on AfricaR on the inspiration, organizers, and different communities. Repost on Rbloggers.

### Participant Diversity - Visa Project 

(Led by Richard Ngamita, Kevin O'Brien)

How can organizers support difficult travel and Visa needs for international participants and diversity scholars? 

Suggestions: extend timeline, work with participants on an individual need-by-need basis, work with embassies, provide more verified information and documentation. 

Plan is to break out into separate regions and countries to investigate: East Africa, West Africa,  US, and EU.

Looking for additional participants to help out with this research. 

Looking into the possibility of supporting more remote lighting talks. Try at ERUM bc of timezone? Pre-recorded?

## Next Meeting 

Mon, Oct 7th, 7:00pm to 8:00pm (GMT+00:00) UTC


