# RCDI-WG Meeting 2018-09-04

Work tracked on Github: https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG

## Attendees
* Hadley Wickham (Chair)
* Samantha Toet (Secretary)
* John Mertic
* Adnan Fiaz
* Joseph Rickert
* Kaelen Medeiros
* Derrick Kearney
* Sydeaka Watson
* Thomas Mock
* Gabriela de Queiroz

## Agenda & Meeting Notes
* **Welcome & Logistics**
    + On mailing list: Samantha will encourage people to join the calls even if they haven’t before
    + On calendar: Samantha to better articulate and promote new meeting time (to accomodate Eastern hemisphere)
    + Blog post on the 3 projects we're working on (revised CoC, best practices checklist, and guidelines for recruitment of diverse speakers) with initial progress reports and solications for feedback (John to draft and circulate, Samantha to support) - slated to conincide with Sept 15th beta versions
    + Meeting schedule: going forward we will meet on the first Monday of each month at 11am ET (4pm London, 8am US West Cost)



* **Revised Code of Conduct** (led by Kara Woo & Gabriela de Queiroz)
    + Discussion at https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG/issues/5 
    + Propose R-ladies as initial template: https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG/blob/a5ef0aaa63636d75c5d50208c98f66f8f55552f7/conduct/code-of-conduct.md 
    + Since there was no opposition to using the R-Ladies CoC as the initial template, Kara will prepare PR removing R-ladies specific language and adding placeholders where needed
    + Suggestions:
        + Hadley suggested we add more positive sentances at the start about goals, mission, and outcome
        + John will suggest some language and templating examples from the Linux Foundation CoC 
        + The section "Harassment Includes" moved to subheading 
        + Remove or generalise “on slack” section; currently too specific to R-ladies



* **Conference Best Practices Checklist/Badges** (Led by Steph Locke, Kaelen Medeiros,  Thomas Mock, & Jeff Hollister)
    + Steph made a first pass at a checklist: https://github.com/RConsortium/RCDI-WG/blob/master/outputs/conferencebestpractices.md
    + No progress since August meeting, the team will report updates in October meeting
    


* **Guidelines for Recruitment of Diverse Speakers** (Led by Sydeaka Watson, Jenny Bryan, Thomas Mock, & Derrick Kearney)
    + Aggregated readings and notes: https://docs.google.com/document/d/13FAb4UwUD4fBhlUi8uRJ9fPWur2cqXT4017nV3J1P3Y/edit
    + Reviewing articles to understand what others have previously recommended
    + Recommendations, so far, involve actions that can be taken at all steps of the conference lifecycle, with major focus points including:
        + Conference Committee Setup and Goals
        + Crafting and Advertising the Call For Proposals
        + Speaker Selection
        + Build the Pipeline of Speakers
        + Collecting and Disseminating Data about Speaker Diversity
    + For Sept 15: 
        + Generate an initial list of recommendations based on the above articles
        + ~10 most important practices (in bullet form)
        + Frequently Voiced Objections
        + May include a FAQ referencing how to address common dismissals of diversity efforts
    + Longer-term goals: use interviews, assemble training resources
    + General Discussion Topic: How do you know you are reaching your goal? How to find people when you can't tell how they self identify?

   

* **Interim stages**: promotion of RCDI-WG
    + Hadley to promote on mailing list
    + John and Samantha to post blog on RConsortium
    + Retweets by Hadley and R-ladies 
    + Sydeaka to promote on Facebook
    
* **Future discussion topics**:
    + Ongoing: best practices for handling skeptics
    + WG Diversity (advice for other working groups)
    + Kevin and Samantha brought up the idea of what does it mean to be a good or bad ally? (Helpful resource: http://www.guidetoallyship.com/)
    + Discuss R consortium Code of Conduct generally — how do we enforce it?
    + How are we defining diversity? How do we measure it? Do we want to be able to? Should we be recording/analysing?
    + What happens if a conference agrees to our principles, and then fails to live up to them?
    + How do we tackle diversity & inclusion in our online spaces? What can community organisers do to promote diverse & enjoyable online spaces?
    + FAQ about why diversity & inclusion important?
    + Who can we reach out to for participation and input from R-Users located in Latin America and Africa?
    + Coaching/discussion forum for conference organisers
    + Should we consider curating a list of diverse speakers?
    

        


    

